dashboard/README.md, before:

The framework: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org).

Next.js supports SPA, SSG and SSR. With this feature, the dashboard ui can be deployed in
1. Standalone machine serving only dashboard UI with a backend. (e.g. Dashboard for cloud product)
2. Meta service node. (e.g. Static HTML files integrated in meta service without any other dependencies like node.js)

## Files
```
dashboard/
--.next/ (generated by nextjs)
--node_modules/ (development dependencies)
--out/ (generated static files)
--components/ (React Component)
--lib/ (useful functions and classes)
--pages/ (web pages)
--public/ (static resources)
--styles/ (static css files)
--test/ (test cases)
```

## Testing
TODO: Find a suitable testing framework

## Development
Start the RisingWave database, remove drop tables from `tpch_snapshot.slt`
```bash
./risedev d
sqllogictest -p 4566 -d dev './e2e_test/streaming/tpch_snapshot.slt'
```
Install Dependencies.
```bash
npm i
```
The website will be served at port 3000.
```bash
npm run dev
```
You should also run:
```
node mock-server.js
```
To start a mock API server when developing. You can use `fetch.sh` to update the mock APIs.

## Test with RisingWave meta node
To replace the built static files in RisingWave with your newest code, 
run the following scripts in the root directory.
```
./risedev export-dashboard-v2
```


## Deployment
#### Static HTML files
Build static files for standalone deployment without node.js. The built files are generated at `./out`.
Check more details at [Static HTML Export](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export).
```bash
npm run build-static
```

#### Next.js app
The built files are generated at `./.next`.
```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```

Commit message:

refactor(dashboard): ignore proto/gen and gen them during install
Signed-off-by: TennyZhuang <zty0826@gmail.com>

dashboard/README.md, after:

# Dashboard

The framework: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org).

Next.js supports SPA, SSG and SSR. With this feature, the dashboard ui can be deployed in

1. Standalone machine serving only dashboard UI with a backend. (e.g. Dashboard for cloud product)
2. Meta service node. (e.g. Static HTML files integrated in meta service without any other dependencies like node.js)

## Files

```plain
dashboard/
--.next/ (generated by nextjs)
--node_modules/ (development dependencies)
--out/ (generated static files)
--components/ (React Component)
--lib/ (useful functions and classes)
--pages/ (web pages)
--public/ (static resources)
--styles/ (static css files)
--test/ (test cases)
```

## Testing

TODO: Find a suitable testing framework

## Development

Start the RisingWave database, remove drop tables from `tpch_snapshot.slt`

```bash
./risedev d
sqllogictest -p 4566 -d dev './e2e_test/streaming/tpch_snapshot.slt'
```

Install Dependencies.

```bash
npm i
```

The website will be served at port 3000.

```bash
npm run dev
```

You should also run:

```bash
node mock-server.js
```

To start a mock API server when developing. You can use `fetch.sh` to update the mock APIs.

## Test with RisingWave meta node

To replace the built static files in RisingWave with your newest code,
run the following scripts in the root directory.

```bash
./risedev export-dashboard-v2
```

## Deployment

### Generate the protos

Running `npm i` will generate the proto files under `proto/gen` automatically. In case there are modifications to the protos, you can regenerate them using the command npm run gen-proto.

### Static HTML files

Build static files for standalone deployment without node.js. The built files are generated at `./out`.
Check more details at [Static HTML Export](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export).

```bash
npm run build-static
```

#### Next.js app

The built files are generated at `./.next`.

```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```
