docker/README.md, before:

# Docker Images

RisingWave currently *only supports Linux x86_64* for building docker images.

To build the images, simply run:

```
make docker
```

in the project root.

To ensure you are using the latest version of RisingWave image,

```
# Ensure risingwave image is of latest version
docker pull ghcr.io/risingwavelabs/risingwave:latest
```

To start a RisingWave playground, run

```
# Start playground
docker run -it --pull=always -p 4566:4566 -p 5691:5691 ghcr.io/risingwavelabs/risingwave:latest playground
```

To start a RisingWave cluster, run

```
# Start all components
docker-compose up
```

It will start a minio, a meta node, a compute node, a frontend, a compactor, a prometheus and a redpanda instance.

To clean all data, run:

```
docker-compose down -v
```

For RisingWave kernel hackers, we always recommend using [risedev](../src/risedevtool/README.md) to start the full cluster, instead of using docker images.
See [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

# Generate docker-compose.yml

```bash
./risedev compose
```

Commit message:

some comments about SIMD support

docker/README.md, after:

# Docker Images

The docker images for x86_64 are built with AVX2 SIMD extensions, while the images for aarch64 are built with NEON SIMD extensions. These must be available on your machine. If your machine does not support these extensions, do edit the `.cargo/config.toml` file in the `risingwave` repo accordingly.

To build the images, simply run:

```
make docker
```

in the project root.

To ensure you are using the latest version of RisingWave image,

```
# Ensure risingwave image is of latest version
docker pull ghcr.io/risingwavelabs/risingwave:latest
```

To start a RisingWave playground, run

```
# Start playground
docker run -it --pull=always -p 4566:4566 -p 5691:5691 ghcr.io/risingwavelabs/risingwave:latest playground
```

To start a RisingWave cluster, run

```
# Start all components
docker-compose up
```

It will start a minio, a meta node, a compute node, a frontend, a compactor, a prometheus and a redpanda instance.

To clean all data, run:

```
docker-compose down -v
```

For RisingWave kernel hackers, we always recommend using [risedev](../src/risedevtool/README.md) to start the full cluster, instead of using docker images.
See [CONTRIBUTING](../CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

# Generate docker-compose.yml

```bash
./risedev compose
```
