src/risedevtool/README.md, before:

# RiseDev: The Ultimate Developer Tool

What is RiseDev?
- When developing -- it is a playground that automatically builds and bootstraps all components.
- When deploying -- it is a config generator.
- For end users -- it can start a minimum playground environment.

This document will introduce RiseDev from two perspectives: usage-level and dev-level, which cover all necessary information to use and develop RiseDev.

## Usage-Level Guide

As a RisingWave developer, you may need to start components and debug components. RiseDev makes your life easier with a flexible scene configuration and a service bootstrapper.

### Service Bootstrapper

#### Run e2e test

In root directory, simply run:

```bash
./risedev d # Default dev mode
./risedev <other modes>
./risedev k # Kill cluster
```

The default scene contains a MinIO, compute-node, meta-node and a frontend. RiseDev will automatically download and configure those services for you.

RiseDev also provides several other modes:
- ci-3cn-1fe: 3 compute node + meta node + 1 frontend + MinIO
- ci-3cn-3fe: 3 compute node + meta node + 3 frontend + MinIO
- ci-1cn-1fe: 1 compute node + meta node + 1 frontend + MinIO
- dev-compute-node: 1 compute-node (user managed) + MinIO + prometheus + meta + frontend

TODO: Add other Meta HA setup here
TODO: Also explain how nginx works as a LB here

#### Debug compute node

Sometimes, you might want to debug a single component, but need to spawn all other components to make that component work. For example, debugging the compute node. In this case, simply run:

```bash
./risedev dev dev-compute-node
```

And you will see:

```plain
✅ tmux: session risedev
✅ minio: api http://127.0.0.1:9301/, console http://127.0.0.1:9400/
.. compute-node-5688: waiting for user-managed service online... (you should start it!)
.. dev cluster: starting 5 services for dev-compute-node...
```

Then, you need simply start compute-node by yourself -- either in command line by cargo run or use debuggers such as CLion to start this component.

### Configuration File

`risedev.yml` defines all available scenes. Let's take a look at the ci-3cn-1fe config:

```yaml
profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5688
      exporter-port: 1223
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5689
      exporter-port: 1224
    - use: meta-node
    - use: frontend
```

The RiseDev development cluster will start these 5 services in sequence. The service type is set with `use`. `port: 5687` overrides the default config for compute-node.
If you don't want one service, or want them to start in different order, simply remove or switch them. For example, if we only need two compute nodes:

```yaml
profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5688
      exporter-port: 1223
    - use: meta-node
    - use: frontend
```

If you don't want to download some components, you may use the interactive configuration tool `./risedev configure` to disable some components.

That's all! RiseDev will generate all other configurations for you, and everything will be fine.

### Add New Profiles

RiseDev has some built-in profiles defined under the `profile` section of `risedev.yml`. You can add new profiles by adding new items under the `profile` section.

RiseDev also supports including profiles from `risedev-profiles.user.yml`, which is automatically generated on the first run. This file is designed to be not version controlled, so you can add your own profiles here for customized purposes. Check this file for more information.

### Logs and Artifacts

- All artifacts of RiseDev will be stored in .risingwave folder.
- The log folder contains log of all components.
- RiseDev uses tmux to manage all components. Use tmux a to attach to the tmux session, and you will find all components running in the background.

## Dev-Level Guide

### Component Preparation

RiseDev uses cargo-make to prepare and download all necessary components. Upon the first time of starting RiseDev, the config wizard will ask for components to download. The default dev environment requires all components to be installed.
The configurator will write an env file to `risedev-components.user.env`.

```bash
RISEDEV_CONFIGURED=true
ENABLE_MINIO=true
ENABLE_BUILD_RUST=true
```

This environment file will then be read by cargo-make, which decides whether or not to run a step.

```
[cargo-make] INFO - Skipping Task: check-risedev-configured
[cargo-make] INFO - Running Task: download-minio
[cargo-make] INFO - Running Task: download-mcli
[cargo-make] INFO - Skipping Task: download-grafana
[cargo-make] INFO - Skipping Task: download-prometheus
[cargo-make] INFO - Running Task: build-risingwave
```

As `ENABLE_PROMETHEUS_GRAFANA` is not set, download-grafana step is skipped.
All steps for downloading components, copying config, and building RisingWave are described as cargo-make's toml config. See `risedevtool/*.toml` and `Makefile.toml` for more information.

### Config Expander

`risedev.yml` is powerful yet simple. If you want to make changes to the configuration format, you may need to understand how it works. Source code is in `risedevtool/src/config`.

> **Note**
>
> The schema for RiseDev configuration files is defined under `src/risedevtool/schemas`.
>
> You can add the following section to `.vscode/settings.json` to get hover support in VS Code:
>
> ```json
>     "yaml.schemas": {
>         "src/risedevtool/schemas/risedev.json": "risedev.yml",
>         "src/risedevtool/schemas/risedev-profiles.user.json": "risedev-profiles.user.yml"
>     }
> ```

#### Template Expanding

`risedev.yml` has two sections: template and profile. The template section contains templates for a single component. For example:

```yaml
template:
  compute-node:
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 5688
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-port: 1222
    id: compute-node-${port}
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false

profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
```

RiseDev will expand this config into:

```yaml
template:
  compute-node:
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 5688
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-port: 1222
    id: compute-node-${port}
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false

profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      address: "127.0.0.1"
      exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
      id: compute-node-${port}
      provide-minio: "minio*"
      user-managed: false
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
```

The config in template (namely `port` and `exporter-port`) will be overwritten by user-provided config.

#### Variable Expanding

In ci-3cn-1fe config,

```yaml
ci-3cn-1fe:
  - use: compute-node
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    id: compute-node-${port}
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false
    port: 5687
    exporter-port: 1222
```
`${port}` will be expanded to `5687`, the field of the same name in the current yaml map.

```yaml
ci-3cn-1fe:
  - use: compute-node
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    id: compute-node-5687
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false
    port: 5687
    exporter-port: 1222
```

#### Wildcard Expanding

The `*` will be expanded by id. For example, in this frontend config, risedev will find all ids that matches compute-node* in the current scene.

```yaml
  frontend:
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 4567
    id: frontend
    provide-compute-node: "compute-node*"
    provide-meta-node: "meta-node*"
    user-managed: false
```

For ci-3cn-1fe, there are three compute nodes, so this will be expanded into:

```yaml
 -  use: frontend
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 4567
    id: frontend
    provide-compute-node: ["compute-node-5687", "compute-node-5688", "compute-node-5689"]
    provide-meta-node: ["meta-node-5690"]
    user-managed: false
```

#### Component Provision

All `provide-` items will be expanded to their corresponding components by id matching. For example, in this case, RiseDev will find the config for `compute-node-5687`, etc., and copy them into the config of frontend:

```yaml
- address: 127.0.0.1
  port: 4567
  id: frontend
  provide-compute-node:
    - address: 127.0.0.1
      exporter-address: 127.0.0.1
      id: compute-node-5687
      user-managed: false
      use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
    - address: 127.0.0.1
      exporter-address: 127.0.0.1
      id: compute-node-5688
      user-managed: false
      use: compute-node
      port: 5688
      exporter-port: 1223
    - address: 127.0.0.1
      exporter-address: 127.0.0.1
      id: compute-node-5689
      user-managed: false
      use: compute-node
      port: 5689
      exporter-port: 1224
```

Based on this expanded config, RiseDev will generate command line arguments or config files for each service before launching them. Check `risedevtool/src/config_gen` for details.

### RiseDev Service

The RiseDev development cluster will read the config and start all the services in sequence. The tasks will be started in tmux. All commands run by RiseDev can be found in `risedev.log` in `.risingwave/log`. After starting each service, it will check liveness and return code of the program, so as to ensure a service is running.

These components conclude the internal implementation of RiseDev.

Commit message:

add LB setup to readme

src/risedevtool/README.md, after:

# RiseDev: The Ultimate Developer Tool

What is RiseDev?
- When developing -- it is a playground that automatically builds and bootstraps all components.
- When deploying -- it is a config generator.
- For end users -- it can start a minimum playground environment.

This document will introduce RiseDev from two perspectives: usage-level and dev-level, which cover all necessary information to use and develop RiseDev.

## Usage-Level Guide

As a RisingWave developer, you may need to start components and debug components. RiseDev makes your life easier with a flexible scene configuration and a service bootstrapper.

### Service Bootstrapper

#### Run e2e test

In root directory, simply run:

```bash
./risedev d # Default dev mode
./risedev <other modes>
./risedev k # Kill cluster
```

The default scene contains a MinIO, compute-node, meta-node and a frontend. RiseDev will automatically download and configure those services for you.

RiseDev also provides several other modes:

- ci-3cn-1fe: 3 compute node + meta node + 1 frontend + MinIO
- ci-3cn-3fe: 3 compute node + meta node + 3 frontend + MinIO
- ci-1cn-1fe: 1 compute node + meta node + 1 frontend + MinIO
- 3etcd-3meta-1cn-1fe: 3 ETCD nodes + 1 compute node + 3 meta nodes + 1 frontend
- dev-compute-node: 1 compute-node (user managed) + MinIO + prometheus + meta + frontend


#### Debug compute node

Sometimes, you might want to debug a single component, but need to spawn all other components to make that component work. For example, debugging the compute node. In this case, simply run:

```bash
./risedev dev dev-compute-node
```

And you will see:

```plain
✅ tmux: session risedev
✅ minio: api http://127.0.0.1:9301/, console http://127.0.0.1:9400/
.. compute-node-5688: waiting for user-managed service online... (you should start it!)
.. dev cluster: starting 5 services for dev-compute-node...
```

Then, you need simply start compute-node by yourself -- either in command line by cargo run or use debuggers such as CLion to start this component.

### Configuration File

`risedev.yml` defines all available scenes. Let's take a look at the ci-3cn-1fe config:

```yaml
profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5688
      exporter-port: 1223
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5689
      exporter-port: 1224
    - use: meta-node
    - use: frontend
```

The RiseDev development cluster will start these 5 services in sequence. The service type is set with `use`. `port: 5687` overrides the default config for compute-node.
If you don't want one service, or want them to start in different order, simply remove or switch them. For example, if we only need two compute nodes:

```yaml
profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5688
      exporter-port: 1223
    - use: meta-node
    - use: frontend
```

If you don't want to download some components, you may use the interactive configuration tool `./risedev configure` to disable some components.

TODO: Add issue. RW cloud should have K8s service

Be aware that a configuration which uses multiple meta nodes, like e.g. `3etcd-3meta-1cn-1fe`, requires an additional load-balancer. This is vital to route requests from a meta client to a meta node. A configuration that uses a LB could look like this: 

```yaml 
profile-name:
  steps:
    - use: load-balancer
      port: 1234 # Has to be the same port
      target-ports: # Has to list meta-node[i].port
        - 1111
        - 4444
    - use: meta-node
      port: 1111
      dashboard-port: 2222
      exporter-port: 3333
      lb-port: 1234 # Has to be the same port
    - use: meta-node
      port: 4444
      dashboard-port: 5555
      exporter-port: 6666
      lb-port: 1234 # Has to be the same port
```

That's all! RiseDev will generate all other configurations for you, and everything will be fine.

### Add New Profiles

RiseDev has some built-in profiles defined under the `profile` section of `risedev.yml`. You can add new profiles by adding new items under the `profile` section.

RiseDev also supports including profiles from `risedev-profiles.user.yml`, which is automatically generated on the first run. This file is designed to be not version controlled, so you can add your own profiles here for customized purposes. Check this file for more information.

### Logs and Artifacts

- All artifacts of RiseDev will be stored in .risingwave folder.
- The log folder contains log of all components.
- RiseDev uses tmux to manage all components. Use tmux a to attach to the tmux session, and you will find all components running in the background.

## Dev-Level Guide

### Component Preparation

RiseDev uses cargo-make to prepare and download all necessary components. Upon the first time of starting RiseDev, the config wizard will ask for components to download. The default dev environment requires all components to be installed.
The configurator will write an env file to `risedev-components.user.env`.

```bash
RISEDEV_CONFIGURED=true
ENABLE_MINIO=true
ENABLE_BUILD_RUST=true
```

This environment file will then be read by cargo-make, which decides whether or not to run a step.

```
[cargo-make] INFO - Skipping Task: check-risedev-configured
[cargo-make] INFO - Running Task: download-minio
[cargo-make] INFO - Running Task: download-mcli
[cargo-make] INFO - Skipping Task: download-grafana
[cargo-make] INFO - Skipping Task: download-prometheus
[cargo-make] INFO - Running Task: build-risingwave
```

As `ENABLE_PROMETHEUS_GRAFANA` is not set, download-grafana step is skipped.
All steps for downloading components, copying config, and building RisingWave are described as cargo-make's toml config. See `risedevtool/*.toml` and `Makefile.toml` for more information.

### Config Expander

`risedev.yml` is powerful yet simple. If you want to make changes to the configuration format, you may need to understand how it works. Source code is in `risedevtool/src/config`.

> **Note**
>
> The schema for RiseDev configuration files is defined under `src/risedevtool/schemas`.
>
> You can add the following section to `.vscode/settings.json` to get hover support in VS Code:
>
> ```json
>     "yaml.schemas": {
>         "src/risedevtool/schemas/risedev.json": "risedev.yml",
>         "src/risedevtool/schemas/risedev-profiles.user.json": "risedev-profiles.user.yml"
>     }
> ```

#### Template Expanding

`risedev.yml` has two sections: template and profile. The template section contains templates for a single component. For example:

```yaml
template:
  compute-node:
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 5688
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-port: 1222
    id: compute-node-${port}
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false

profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
```

RiseDev will expand this config into:

```yaml
template:
  compute-node:
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 5688
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-port: 1222
    id: compute-node-${port}
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false

profile:
  ci-3cn-1fe:
    - use: compute-node
      address: "127.0.0.1"
      exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
      id: compute-node-${port}
      provide-minio: "minio*"
      user-managed: false
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
```

The config in template (namely `port` and `exporter-port`) will be overwritten by user-provided config.

#### Variable Expanding

In ci-3cn-1fe config,

```yaml
ci-3cn-1fe:
  - use: compute-node
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    id: compute-node-${port}
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false
    port: 5687
    exporter-port: 1222
```
`${port}` will be expanded to `5687`, the field of the same name in the current yaml map.

```yaml
ci-3cn-1fe:
  - use: compute-node
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    exporter-address: "127.0.0.1"
    id: compute-node-5687
    provide-minio: "minio*"
    user-managed: false
    port: 5687
    exporter-port: 1222
```

#### Wildcard Expanding

The `*` will be expanded by id. For example, in this frontend config, risedev will find all ids that matches compute-node* in the current scene.

```yaml
  frontend:
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 4567
    id: frontend
    provide-compute-node: "compute-node*"
    provide-meta-node: "meta-node*"
    user-managed: false
```

For ci-3cn-1fe, there are three compute nodes, so this will be expanded into:

```yaml
 -  use: frontend
    address: "127.0.0.1"
    port: 4567
    id: frontend
    provide-compute-node: ["compute-node-5687", "compute-node-5688", "compute-node-5689"]
    provide-meta-node: ["meta-node-5690"]
    user-managed: false
```

#### Component Provision

All `provide-` items will be expanded to their corresponding components by id matching. For example, in this case, RiseDev will find the config for `compute-node-5687`, etc., and copy them into the config of frontend:

```yaml
- address: 127.0.0.1
  port: 4567
  id: frontend
  provide-compute-node:
    - address: 127.0.0.1
      exporter-address: 127.0.0.1
      id: compute-node-5687
      user-managed: false
      use: compute-node
      port: 5687
      exporter-port: 1222
    - address: 127.0.0.1
      exporter-address: 127.0.0.1
      id: compute-node-5688
      user-managed: false
      use: compute-node
      port: 5688
      exporter-port: 1223
    - address: 127.0.0.1
      exporter-address: 127.0.0.1
      id: compute-node-5689
      user-managed: false
      use: compute-node
      port: 5689
      exporter-port: 1224
```

Based on this expanded config, RiseDev will generate command line arguments or config files for each service before launching them. Check `risedevtool/src/config_gen` for details.

### RiseDev Service

The RiseDev development cluster will read the config and start all the services in sequence. The tasks will be started in tmux. All commands run by RiseDev can be found in `risedev.log` in `.risingwave/log`. After starting each service, it will check liveness and return code of the program, so as to ensure a service is running.

These components conclude the internal implementation of RiseDev.
