src/tests/sqlsmith/README.md, before:

# Sqlsmith

SqlSmith is currently used as a testing tool to discover unexpected panics in RisingWave (It's not designed to generally test every SQL database, as it also tests some special SQL syntax used in RisingWave). It always generates the correct SQL based on the feature set supported so far. Therefore, if a test fails, it can only be due to two causes:

1. There's a bug in SQLSmith, as it generates invalid SQL.
2. There's a bug in RisingWave because it's unable to handle a correct query.

## Frontend

SqlSmith has two modes. The first one focuses on testing the frontend, i.e, testing the functionalities of SQL compilation (binding, transforming an AST into a logical plan, transforming a logical plan into a physical plan).

This test will be run as a unit test:

``` sh
./risedev test -E "package(risingwave_sqlsmith)" --features enable_sqlsmith_unit_test
```

## Generate snapshots

Take a look at [`gen_queries.sh`](scripts/gen_queries.sh).

## Running with Madsim

You can check [`ci/scripts/build-simulation.sh`](../../../ci/scripts/build-simulation.sh) 
for the latest madsim build instructions.

```sh
# Build madsim
cargo make sslt-build-all --profile ci-sim
# The target bin can be found here:
# target/sim/ci-sim/risingwave_simulation
# Run fuzzing
RUST_BACKTRACE=1 MADSIM_TEST_SEED=1 ./target/sim/ci-sim/risingwave_simulation --sqlsmith 100 ./src/tests/sqlsmith/tests/testdata
```

## E2E

In the second mode, it will test the entire query handling end-to-end. We provide a CLI tool that represents a Postgres client. You can run this tool via:

```sh
cargo build
./risedev d
./target/debug/sqlsmith test --testdata ./src/tests/sqlsmith/tests/testdata
```

Additionally, in some cases where you may want to debug whether we have defined some function/operator incorrectly,
you can try:

```sh
cargo build
./target/debug/sqlsmith print-function-table > ft.txt
```

Check out ft.txt that will contain all the function signatures.

Commit message:

add instructions on running failing queries

src/tests/sqlsmith/README.md, after:

# Sqlsmith

SqlSmith is currently used as a testing tool to discover unexpected panics in RisingWave (It's not designed to generally test every SQL database, as it also tests some special SQL syntax used in RisingWave). It always generates the correct SQL based on the feature set supported so far. Therefore, if a test fails, it can only be due to two causes:

1. There's a bug in SQLSmith, as it generates invalid SQL.
2. There's a bug in RisingWave because it's unable to handle a correct query.

## Frontend

SqlSmith has two modes. The first one focuses on testing the frontend, i.e, testing the functionalities of SQL compilation (binding, transforming an AST into a logical plan, transforming a logical plan into a physical plan).

This test will be run as a unit test:

``` sh
./risedev test -E "package(risingwave_sqlsmith)" --features enable_sqlsmith_unit_test
```

## Generate snapshots

Take a look at [`gen_queries.sh`](scripts/gen_queries.sh).

Sometimes during the generation process some failed queries might be encountered.

For instance if the logs produces:
```sh
[WARN] Cluster crashed while generating queries. see .risingwave/log/generate-22.log for more information.
```

You can re-run the failed query:
```sh
RUST_BACKTRACE=1 MADSIM_TEST_SEED=22 RUST_LOG=info \
./target/sim/ci-sim/risingwave_simulation \
  --run-sqlsmith-queries $SNAPSHOT_DIR/failed/22
```

The `failed query` is a summary of the full query set.
In case it does not actually fail, it might be wrong.

You can re-run the full query set as well in that case:
```sh
RUST_BACKTRACE=1 MADSIM_TEST_SEED=22 RUST_LOG=info \
./target/sim/ci-sim/risingwave_simulation \
 --run-sqlsmith-queries $SNAPSHOT_DIR/22
```

## Running with Madsim

You can check [`ci/scripts/build-simulation.sh`](../../../ci/scripts/build-simulation.sh) 
for the latest madsim build instructions.

```sh
# Build madsim
cargo make sslt-build-all --profile ci-sim
# The target bin can be found here:
# target/sim/ci-sim/risingwave_simulation
# Run fuzzing
RUST_BACKTRACE=1 MADSIM_TEST_SEED=1 ./target/sim/ci-sim/risingwave_simulation --sqlsmith 100 ./src/tests/sqlsmith/tests/testdata
```

## E2E

In the second mode, it will test the entire query handling end-to-end. We provide a CLI tool that represents a Postgres client. You can run this tool via:

```sh
cargo build
./risedev d
./target/debug/sqlsmith test --testdata ./src/tests/sqlsmith/tests/testdata
```

Additionally, in some cases where you may want to debug whether we have defined some function/operator incorrectly,
you can try:

```sh
cargo build
./target/debug/sqlsmith print-function-table > ft.txt
```

Check out ft.txt that will contain all the function signatures.
